Discrete mathematics, and in particular mathematical logic, is the
field from which computer science arose.  Moreover, it continues to
serve to provide essential intellectual tool for students of computer
science, software systems engineering, artificial intelligence, and
other fields.

Yet it is taught to early undergraduate students of computer science
as an abstract, paper-and-pencil course disconnected from the concerns
of programming. Students come to question is relevance and importance,
lose motivation, and even sometimes leave their discrete mathematics
courses disillusioned and feeling that they have wasted their time,
the useful applications of the ideas never having been made clear.

The organizing principle of this course in discrete mathematics is
that we now can and should ground the study of mathematical logic in
the use of powerful software tools that automate logic and proof to
useful ends, especially to support specification and verification of
software. This course thus teaches logic and proof through the use of
several automated tools that support the use of logic for software
specification and verification.

Attentive students will emerge from this class understanding not only
the abstract principles of logic, proof, counting, recursion, and so
on, but with foundational knowledge critical to the future of software
quality and assurance, computer security, automated reasoning, etc.
Using advanced specification and verification languages and tools
makes an otherwise often dreary class in discrete mathematics into an
exciting, tool-supported journey through a wild landscape of precise,
beautiful, and powerful ideas.

It is not the point of the class to teach programming, per se. Yet
this class does does as a side effect, teach fundamental concepts,
methods, and tools of formal specification and verification. It also
takes a computational approach to proofs and validity checking using
cutting edge tools for proof engineering. This course should provide
students with the preparation in formal methods needed for follow-on
coursework in such areas as algorithms, theory of computing, software
engineering, computer security, and artificial intelligence, among
others,
